# Hera-T

We introduce **Hera-T**, a fast and accurate tool for estimating gene abundances in single cell data generated by the 10X-Chromium protocol. By devising a new strategy for aligning reads to both transcriptome and genome references, Hera-T reduces both running time and memory consumption from 10 to 100 folds while giving similar results compared to CellRanger’s. Hera-T also addresses some difficult splicing alignment scenarios that CellRanger fails to address, and therefore, obtains better accuracy compared to CellRanger. Excluding the reads in those scenarios, Hera-T and CellRanger results have correlation scores > 0.99.

# License

Hera-T is distributed under BioTuring License. See the LICENSE file for details.

# Credit
Hera-T is developed and maintained in BioTuring INC. by:

* Thang Tran thang.tq.139@gmail.com
* Thao Truong thao@bioturing.com
* Hy Vuong vuonghy2442@gmail.com
* Tan Phan tan@bioturing.com
* Son Pham sonpham@bioturing.com

# Pre-print

Thang Tran, Thao Truong, Hy Vuong, Son Pham, “Hera-T: an efficient and accurate approach for quantifying gene abundances from 10X-Chromium data with high rates of non-exonic reads”, biorXiv, 2019 doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/530501

# How to get help

A preferred way to report any problems or ask questions about Hera-T is the issue tracker. Before posting an issue/question, consider to look through the FAQs and existing issues (opened and closed) - it is possible that your question has already been answered.

If you reporting a problem, please include the HeraT.log file and provide some details about your dataset (if possible).

In case you prefer personal communication, please send an email to support@bioturing.com.

# Change logs

2018-12-24 (0.1.2) (deprecated):

    * Init repo

2018-12-25 (0.1.3) (deprecated):

    * Add library types selection
    * Write program description to matrix.mtx file

2018-12-27 (0.1.4) (deprecated):

    * Fix memory leak in version 0.1.3

2018-12-28 (0.2.0) (deprecated):

    * Support Chromium 3' v3 library

2019-03-20 (0.2.1) (release candidate):

    * Fix random crash (change from buggy semaphore to lock)

2019-03-25 (0.2.2) (release candidate):

    * Fix open all files at once
